# IPACHECK 4 - Educate!'s Version

## Overview
ipacheck is Innovations for Poverty Action's Stata package for running high-frequency checks during data collection. This repository contains a customized version of the package tailored to Educate!'s routine and needs. This package includes the following programs:

### Main programs

 - `ipacheckcorrections` - make corrections to data.
 - `ipacheckspecifyrecode` - recode other specify values.
 - `ipacheckversions`- export statistics on survey form versions & flags outdated survey submissions.
 - `ipacheckids`- export duplicates in survey ID.
 - `ipacheckdups`- export duplicates in non-ID variables.
 - `ipacheckmissing`- export statistics on missingness & distintness for each variable.
 - `ipacheckoutliers` - export outliers in numeric variables.
 - `ipacheckoconstraints` - export outliers in numeric variables.
 - `ipacheckspecify` - export all values specified for variables with 'other speciy' category.
 - `ipacheckcomments` - export field comments generated with SurveyCTO's comments field type.
 - `ipachecktextaudit` - export statistics on duration per field using the SurveyCTO's text audit files.
 - `ipachecktimeuse` - export statistics on hours of engagement using the SurveyCTO's text audit files.
 - `ipachecksurveydb` - export general statistics about dataset.
 - `ipacheckenumdb` - export general statistics about enumerator performance.
 - `ipatracksurvey` - export dashboard for tracking survey progress.
 - `ipabcstats` - compare survey and back check data.
  
 ### Ancilliary programs

- `ipacodebook` - export codebook to excel. Includes an option to use notes as variable labels

ipacheck comes with a folder structure for your project including a master do-file, a globals do-file, prep do-file and Excel-based inputs sheets. Results of checks are exported as nicely formatted Excel spreadsheets for distribution among field teams. As of version 4.2.0, ipacheck now uses programs from the [ipahelper](https://github.com/PovertyAction/ipahelper/main).


## Installation

The installation has some differences compared to the original package:
 - The installation URL is different.
 - Starting a new project requires the specification of additional elements: obsid (the variable capturing the ID of each observation), enumid (the variable capturing the ID of the enumerators), and teamid (the variable capturing the supervisor/team of the enumerators).
 - The code is optimized for a single survey per project.

```Stata
* ipacheck may be installed directly from GitHub
net install ipacheck, all replace from("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/matteoram/high-frequency-checks/master")
ipacheck update

* after initial installation ipacheck can be updated at any time using
ipacheck update

* to start a new project with folder structure and input files
ipacheck new, surveys("SURVEY_NAME_1") folder("path/to/project") obsid(uuid) enumid(enum_name) teamid(resp_district)
```

### Changes from IPA's Original Package

The customization introduced several modifications to streamline processes that
are not relevant to Educate!'s standard operations and to enhance output
visualization and summarization.

1. **Selective Program Execution:**  
Not all programs from the original package are included in this version's
checks. Specifically, only the following are executed:
 - `ipacheckids`
 - `ipacheckversions`
 - `ipacheckmissing`
 - `ipacheckoutliers`
 - `ipacheckenumdb`
 - `ipachecksurveydb`
 - `ipatracksurvey`

2. **Modified Folder Structure:**  
The folder structure has been simplified. Only the following folders are
created: `instruments`, `dofiles`, `checks`, and `data`. Subfolders are
generated exclusively within the `instruments` folder.

3. **Do-Files:**  
Since backchecks were not routinely implemented, only the `1_globals`,
`3_prepsurvey`, and `4_checksurvey` do-files are copied when creating a new
project.

4. **No Input File Required:**  
Unlike IPA's Data Management System (DMS), this version of the checks does not
require an input file. Information such as variables to check for outliers is
automatically generated by examining the dataset, and some parameters—like the
threshold for outliers—are hard-coded at 3 standard deviations.

5. **Dynamic Do-File Updates:**  
The `0_master` and `1_globals` do-files are dynamically modified during
project creation, minimizing the need for manual adjustments by the analyst.
This is done by extracting information from the options provided in the
`*ipacheck new*` command. For instance, the observation ID variable
specified in `*ipacheck new*` will automatically update the `1_globals`
do-file.

6. **Consolidated Output:**  
The results of all checks are exported and saved in a single `hfc_output` file,
which has been simplified for easier analysis.

## Learn about the DMS
Check out the [DMS wiki](https://github.com/PovertyAction/high-frequency-checks/wiki) for more information about the IPA's DMS. You can also review the [DMS exercise](https://github.com/PovertyAction/high-frequency-checks/wiki/Exercise) to learn how to setup the DMS for your project. 

If you encounter a clear bug, please file a minimal reproducible example on [github](https://github.com/matteoram/high-frequency-checks/issues). For questions and other discussion, please email us at [raminamatteo@me.com](mailto:raminamatteo@me.com).

## Current IPA Author(s)
 - Ishmail Azindoo Baako

## Modified by:
 - Matteo Ramina

## Past Author(s)
 - Rosemarie Sandino
 - Christopher Boyer
 - Isabel Onate
 - Kelsey Larson
 - Caton Brewster
